Amperage examples 

mA examples

Introduction: Stereo-EEG (sEEG) is a technique used to localize the seizure-onset zone for epilepsy surgery in people with drug-resistant focal seizures. Pathological crying reflects disordered emotional expression and the anterior insula is known to play a role in empathy and socio-emotional processing. We describe a patient where direct electrical stimulation of the anterior insula during sEEG generated pathological crying and profound sadness. Case Report/Case History: A 35-year-old left-handed female with drug resistant epilepsy had left temporal lobe surgery with retained mesial structures. Upon re-evaluation with video-EEG monitoring, interictal epileptiform discharges and multiple focal seizures localized to the left posterior temporal-parietal region. She subsequently underwent sEEG with 10 electrodes placed in the left hemisphere around prior surgical margins. Electrical stimulation was performed. Bipolar stimulation of deep electrodes (LV 1-2) in the anterior insular cortex at 5 mA, 50 Hz, 500 msec pulse width in trains of 4 seconds an initial " emotional" response and " teary eyed" signs were present and subjective symptoms of profound sadness. The task of continuous counting was interrupted, and she was unable to finish counting due to the intensity of emotion. Cognitive, motor, language function was normal with intact level of awareness. No post-operative " lesion" was present. When the stimulation was stopped, she returned to her normal mental state with recall of the emotion. This was reproducible with intensification upon repeat stimulation. Conclusion(s): Our case is unique in demonstrating transitory profound sadness and pathological crying during presurgical brain mapping for epilepsy. The timesynched temporal effect of stimulation provides strong causal pathophysiological relationship to implicate the anterior insula in the brain biology of pathological crying.

Background: An ecstatic phenomenon is an altered state of consciousness with a sense of "hyper-reality", and a complete present-moment awareness with a feeling of union with the Universe. A better understanding of the network mechanisms underlying this fascinating subjective experience may help to unravel some mysteries of human consciousness. Insula has been recently proposed to be a key region to elicit these symptoms. Objective/Hypothesis: We studied functional connectivity changes in several brain areas during the induction of ecstatic auras by direct electrical stimulation of the dorsal anterior insular cortex in patients with refractory focal epilepsy implanted with intracerebral electrodes (stereotactic-EEG, SEEG) in the context of their pre-surgical evaluation. Method(s): Three patients were selected on the basis of the occurrence of ecstatic symptoms triggered by direct intracerebral electrical stimulation (ES) of the antero-dorsal part of the insula. ES was performed (50 Hz, 1.5-2.1 mA, in a bipolar fashion to each contact in the gray matter during a 3 s period) to map functional cortices and trigger habitual seizures. One stimulation inducing ecstatic changes in each patient was analyzed. Functional connectivity analysis was performed by measuring interdependencies (nonlinear regression analysis based on the h2 coefficient) between SEEG signals before and after stimulations. Result(s): In all patients, only the stimulation of dorsal anterior insula was able to reproduce an ecstatic aura. We observed a significant increase of functional connectivity values between several brain regions in the immediate period following stimulations. The most commonly implicated region was the dorsal anterior insula. Out-degrees (a measure intended to identify leading structures in a network) identified the dorsal anterior insula as the most common leading region in the induced networks. Conclusion(s): Our findings bring additional support in favor of a major role played by the dorsal anterior insula in ecstatic experiences.Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc.

Background: Paired-pulse (PP) paradigms are commonly employed to assess in vivo cortical excitability using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to stimulate the primary motor cortex and modulate the induced motor evoked potential (MEP). Single-pulse cortical direct electrical stimulation (DES) during intracerebral EEG monitoring allows the investigation of brain connectivity by eliciting cortico-cortical evoked potentials (CCEPs). However, PP paradigm using intracerebral DES has rarely been reported and has never been previously compared with TMS. Objective(s): The work was intended (i) to verify that the well-established modulations of MEPs following PP TMS remain similar using DES in the motor cortex, and (ii) to evaluate if a similar pattern could be observed in distant cortico-cortical connections through modulations of CCEP. Method(s): Three patients undergoing intracerebral EEG monitoring with electrodes implanted in the central region were studied. Single-pulse DES (1-3 mA, 1 ms, 0.2 Hz) and PP DES using six interstimulus intervals (5, 15, 30, 50, 100, and 200 ms) in the motor cortex with concomitant recording of CCEPs and MEPs in contralateral muscles were performed. Finally, a navigated PP TMS session targeted the intracranial stimulation site to record TMS-induced MEPs in two patients. Result(s): MEP modulations elicited by PP intracerebral DES proved similar among the three patients and to those obtained by PP TMS. CCEP modulations elicited by PP intracerebral DES usually showed a pattern comparable to that of MEP, although a different pattern could be observed occasionally. Conclusion(s): PP intracerebral DES seems to involve excitatory and inhibitory mechanisms similar to PP TMS and allows the recording of intracortical inhibition and facilitation modulation on cortico-cortical connections. Hum Brain Mapp 37:3767-3778, 2016. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Introduction: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a new neuromodulation method for controlling intractable epilepsy. However, the mechanism, the optimal stimulus target, and the optimal stimulation parameters are still unclear. In this study, we used a self-developed micro-neurostimulation system deliver continuous low-frequency (1Hz) electrical stimulation to bilateral endopiriform nuclei (EPN). We want to explore new stimulation targets and parameters that can control focal epilepsy. Materials/Methods: Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were stereotactic surgical implanted a segment of cobalt wire (1. 0 mm in diameter and 1. 5 mm in length) into the left motor cortex. Two screw electrodes and two tungsten depth electrodes were symmetrically implanted into the bilateral motor cortex and hippocampal CA1 for EEG recording. Then two bipolar tungsten stimulation electrodes were implanted into bilateral EPN. We stimulated each side of the EPN separately and recorded the evoked potential from the ipsilateral hippocampal CA1 region to confirm the stimulating electrodes were accurately implanted in the EPN. Final stimulus parameters were adjusted to the intensity produced half-maximal evoked. Three days later, video-EEG monitoring and bilateral EPN were stimulated with low frequency (1Hz) sustained stimulus was started. The stimulation was stopped after three consecutive days without seizures. At the end of the experiment, all rats were euthanized, their brains were quickly removed and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde solution. After removed the cobalt wire, the whole brain was imaged using 7.0T magnetic resonance. Subsequent histological examination of brain was done to confirm the stimulation and recording electrodes are in the right place. Finally, the EEG was analyzed and compared between the groups, and behavioral seizures were assessed by Racine scale. Result(s): Results show that the average seizures/day in the EPN stimulation group was significantly reduced (3.2+/-0.2/d) compared to the control group (8.1+/-1.0/d, P<0.001) and sham stimulation group (7.6+/-0.8/d, P<0.001). The seizure behavioral score (Racine scale) in the EPN stimulation group was lower (3.0+/-0.2/d) than the control group (4.1+/-0.1/d, P<0.001) and sham stimulation group (4.0+/-0.2/d, P<0.001). EEG spectral analysis showed that the power of theta band of seizures in EPN stimulation group was significantly reduced compared to the control group and sham stimulation group (P<0. 01). Discussion(s): None Conclusion(s): Our results demonstrate that sustained 1 Hz low frequency stimulation of bilateral EPN can reduce the number of seizures and the seizure behavioral score in chronic focal epilepsy in rats, which suggests that EPN may be a potential target for clinical DBS for drug refractory epilepsy. Objective(s): DBS control seizures.


muA examples

The effects of acute responsive high frequency stimulation (HFS) to the subiculum on seizures and interictal spikes were investigated in a semi-acute kainic acid (KA) induced seizure model in rats. Wistar rats (n = 15) were implanted with an electrode-cannula complex in the CA3 area, stimulation and recording electrodes in the subiculum and another recording electrode at the contralateral motor cortex. Two weeks later rats were injected repeatedly with KA (0.05 mug/0.1 muL) for 3 days with an interval of 48 h. HFS (125 Hz, 100 musec) was delivered to the subiculum at a predetermined intensity range (100-500 muA) in the HFS group (n = 7) when seizures were visually detected, while no stimulation was delivered in the sham control group (n = 8). Various severities of seizures were obtained (Stage I-V) and all rats of both groups reached Stage V (Racine's scale) on Day 1. The HFS group had less focal seizures and a longer inter-focal seizure interval on Day 1. Interictal spike rate was also lower in the HFS group and decreased with injection days. Significant day effects were found for the latency, number of focal seizures, and duration of focal seizures and generalized seizures while differences between groups were no longer present. Responsive HFS did not disrupt ongoing seizures. However, focal seizures and interictal spikes were suppressed by HFS. Such anticonvulsant effects of acute subicular stimulation indicate that the subiculum is involved in seizure generation. The reduction of seizure sensitivity over the injection day reflects an intrinsic anticonvulsant mechanism. © 2012 The Authors. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.

Background: Contribution of neuroinflammation and epilepsy in the mature brain has elicited contradictory results with either excitatory or inhibitory effects. The amygdala is one of the main parts of the limbic system susceptible to insults that lead to neuroinflammation and epilepsy. This study evaluates the effect of chronic inflammation of the rat amygdala induced by lipopoly saccharide (LPS) on kindling epileptogenesis. Method(s): LPS (5mug/rat) was infused once daily into the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of adult rats. Daily electrical stimulation (150-300 muA, 100 Hz, monophasic square wave stimulus of 1 msec per wave, 2 secduration) was delivered into BLA 30 min after LPS injections until the animals became fully kindled. Result(s): LPS had no significant effect on the development of focal and generalized seizures. Conclusion(s): The type of neural system exposed to LPS and its specific electrophysiological properties seems to ascertain the final excitatory or inhibitory outcome.

Experiments were designed to reproduce the antiepileptic effects of low frequency stimulation (LFS) during the amygdala kindling process and to examine LFS-induced changes in receptor binding levels of different neurotransmitters in normal brain. Male Wistar rats were stereotactically implanted in the right amygdala with a bipolar electrode. Rats (n=14) received twice daily LFS (15 min train of 1 Hz, 0.1 ms at an intensity of 100 to 400 muA) immediately after amygdala kindling stimulation (1 s train of 60 Hz biphasic square waves, each 1 ms at amplitude of 200-500 muA) during 20 days. The LFS suppressed epileptogenesis (full attainment of stage V kindling) but not the presence of partial seizures (lower stages of kindling) in 85.7% of the rats. Thereafter, normal rats (n=7) received amygdala LFS twice daily for 40 trials. Animals were sacrificed 24 h after last stimulation and their brain used for labeling mu opioid, benzodiazepine (BZD), alpha1-adrenergic, and adenylyl cyclase binding. Autoradiography experiments revealed increased BZD receptor binding in basolateral amygdala (20.5%) and thalamus (29.3%) ipsilateral to the place of stimulation and in contralateral temporal cortex (18%) as well as decreased values in ipsilateral frontal cortex (24.2%). Concerning mu receptors, LFS decreased binding values in ipsilateral sensorimotor (7.2%) and temporal (5.6%) cortices, dentate gyrus (5.8% ipsi and 6.8% contralateral, respectively), and contralateral CA1 area of dorsal hippocampus (5.5%). LFS did not modify alpha1 receptor and adenylyl cyclase binding values. These findings suggest that the antiepileptic effects of LFS may involve activation of GABA-BZD and endogenous opioid systems. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

