Abstracts in "Hz" filtered DataFrame

#6
Transcranial focal electrical stimulation (TFS) via tripolar concentric ring electrodes (TCRE), tripolar TFS, is proposed to treat pharmacoresistant epilepsy. We determined the effect of tripolar TFS on electrical amygdaloid kindling (AK) in freely moving cats. Fifteen cats were bilaterally implanted with electrodes in the amygdala (AM) and prefrontal cortex and assigned to three groups: the control group, which only received AK; the tripolar TFS before AK group, in which TCREs were placed over the vertex and tripolar TFS (300 Hz, 200 mus biphasic equal charge, square pulses) was delivered for 40 min just prior to AK; and the tripolar TFS after AK group, in which the TCREs were placed over the temporal bone ipsilateral to the kindled AM, while tripolar TFS was administered for 2 min just after AK onset for 40 days, and, thereafter, only AK was applied. AK was applied daily until all animals reached kindling stage VI. A three concentric spheres finite element cat head model was developed to analyze the electric fields caused by tripolar TFS. Tripolar TFS after AK inhibited kindling development. Animals with tripolar TFS after AK remained at the focal seizure stages for 20 days after tripolar TFS cessation and required 80.0 +/- 15.42 AK stimulations to reach stage VI, significantly higher than TFS before AK, and control (P <.001). Tripolar TFS before AK did not show signs of protection against epileptogenesis. The finite modeling of tripolar TFS showed that the electric field is >0.3 mV/mm at depths less than approximately 12.6 mm in the cat brain, which should be strong enough to alter brain activity. In conclusion, tripolar TFS applied via a TCRE over the ipsilateral temporal area significantly delayed AK. This taken together with other reports of tripolar TFS aborting seizures in acute seizure models suggests that tripolar TFS is a promising new modality that should be considered for further testing.Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc.


#8
Introduction: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is a new neuromodulation method for controlling intractable epilepsy. However, the mechanism, the optimal stimulus target, and the optimal stimulation parameters are still unclear. In this study, we used a self-developed micro-neurostimulation system deliver continuous low-frequency (1Hz) electrical stimulation to bilateral endopiriform nuclei (EPN). We want to explore new stimulation targets and parameters that can control focal epilepsy. Materials/Methods: Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were stereotactic surgical implanted a segment of cobalt wire (1. 0 mm in diameter and 1. 5 mm in length) into the left motor cortex. Two screw electrodes and two tungsten depth electrodes were symmetrically implanted into the bilateral motor cortex and hippocampal CA1 for EEG recording. Then two bipolar tungsten stimulation electrodes were implanted into bilateral EPN. We stimulated each side of the EPN separately and recorded the evoked potential from the ipsilateral hippocampal CA1 region to confirm the stimulating electrodes were accurately implanted in the EPN. Final stimulus parameters were adjusted to the intensity produced half-maximal evoked. Three days later, video-EEG monitoring and bilateral EPN were stimulated with low frequency (1Hz) sustained stimulus was started. The stimulation was stopped after three consecutive days without seizures. At the end of the experiment, all rats were euthanized, their brains were quickly removed and fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde solution. After removed the cobalt wire, the whole brain was imaged using 7.0T magnetic resonance. Subsequent histological examination of brain was done to confirm the stimulation and recording electrodes are in the right place. Finally, the EEG was analyzed and compared between the groups, and behavioral seizures were assessed by Racine scale. Result(s): Results show that the average seizures/day in the EPN stimulation group was significantly reduced (3.2+/-0.2/d) compared to the control group (8.1+/-1.0/d, P<0.001) and sham stimulation group (7.6+/-0.8/d, P<0.001). The seizure behavioral score (Racine scale) in the EPN stimulation group was lower (3.0+/-0.2/d) than the control group (4.1+/-0.1/d, P<0.001) and sham stimulation group (4.0+/-0.2/d, P<0.001). EEG spectral analysis showed that the power of theta band of seizures in EPN stimulation group was significantly reduced compared to the control group and sham stimulation group (P<0. 01). Discussion(s): None Conclusion(s): Our results demonstrate that sustained 1 Hz low frequency stimulation of bilateral EPN can reduce the number of seizures and the seizure behavioral score in chronic focal epilepsy in rats, which suggests that EPN may be a potential target for clinical DBS for drug refractory epilepsy. Objective(s): DBS control seizures.


#10
Purpose: We used a self-developed multiple channel neural stimulator programed by a smart phone to deliver continuous low-frequency electrical stimulation to bilateral endopiriform nuclei (EPN) to investigate whether EPN-DBS can significantly control chronic epilepsy in rats. Method(s): A piece of cobalt wire was implanted into left motor cortex in SD rats to induce chronic epilepsy. Two screw electrodes and two tungsten depth electrodes were implanted into bilateral motor cortex and hippocampus CA1. Two bipolar tungsten stimulation electrodes were stereotactically implanted into bilateral EPN by stimulating each side of EPN separately and recording the evoked potential (EP) in ipsilateral CA1. Three days after surgery, all the rats were subjected to long term video-EEG monitoring and behavioral seizures were assessed by Racine scale. Simultaneously, bilateral EPN nuclei were stimulated with 1 Hz sustained stimulus until three consecutive days without seizures. Result(s): Results show that average number of seizures per day in EPN-DBS group was significantly reduced (3.2 +/- 0.2/d, n = 5) compared with control group (8.1 +/- 1.0/d, n = 5, p < 0.001) and sham stimulation group (7.6 +/- 0.8/d, n = 5, p < 0.001). Seizure behavioral score (Racine scale) in EPN-DBS group was significantly lower (3.0 +/- 0.2/d, n = 5) than control group (4.1 +/- 0.1/d, n = 5, p < 0.001) and sham stimulation group (4.0 +/- 0.2/d, n = 5, p < 0.001). Electroencephalogram spectral analysis showed that the power of theta band of seizures in EPN stimulation group was significantly reduced compared to the control group and sham stimulation group (p < 0. 01). Conclusion(s): Our results demonstrate that sustained 1 Hz low frequency stimulation of bilateral EPN can reduce the number of seizures and the seizure behavioral score in chronic focal epilepsy in rats, which suggests that EPN may be a potential target for clinical DBS for drug refractory epilepsy. In addition, the inhibition of electroencephalogram broadband spectrum power, especially power of theta band, may be the underlying mechanismto control seizures.

#19
Rationale: Experimental studies in the kindling model have demonstrated that the piriform cortex (PC) is involved in the initiation and spreading of seizures. PC lesional studies have demonstrated a reduction in kindling rate and prevention of secondary generalization. Additionally, low-frequency (1 Hz) deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the PC suppresses progression of amygdala kindling and expression of generalized seizures in fully kindled rats. The role of the PC in epilepsy models displaying spontaneous seizures is less explored. The aim of this study was to investigate 1) the relationship between PC lesions and seizure occurrence and generalization, and 2) the potential of PC DBS to suppress spontaneous epileptic seizures in a rat model for temporal lobe epilepsy. Method(s): Eight male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent the following protocol: 1) day 0: induction of status epilepticus (SE) by intrahippocampal (IH) injection of kainic acid (KA); 2) day 4 and month 3: structural integrity determination by T2-weighted MRI; 3) month 5: implantation of bilateral recording electrodes in the dentate gyrus and a stimulation electrode in the central piriform cortex / dorsal endopiriform nucleus ipsilateral to the KA lesion (-0.8 AP, 4.9 ML, 9.0-7.75 below bregma); 4) month 6: 4 weeks of continuous video-EEG monitoring (VEM) to document seizure frequency, duration and generalization (Racine stage 1-2 versus stage 3-4-5); 5) month 7: 2 weeks of continuous high-frequency (130 Hz) Poisson-distributed PC DBS followed by a 2-week washout period. Result(s): In 3/8 rats T2 hyperintensities corresponding to PC oedema (MRI day 4) and lesions (MRI month 3, same rats) were found, unilaterally (rat 1 & 2) or bilaterally (rat 7). At least one spontaneous seizure was recorded in all rats during the entire 8-week VEM period. Seizure frequency, duration and generalization during the baseline period are listed in Table 1. Neither unilateral nor bilateral PC lesions were necessary for or prevented seizure occurrence; the 2 rats with unilateral PC lesions showed the highest seizure frequency. Uni- or bilateral lesions did not block seizure generalization. Although rats with PC lesions showed the highest proportion of partial seizures, the majority of seizures were generalized in all rats. Based on the results of the pilot trial (Table 2) it is unlikely (6% chance) that PC DBS strongly reduces seizure frequency or generalization in the majority of rats in the IH KA rat model for temporal lobe epilepsy. Conclusion(s): Neither unilateral nor bilateral PC structural integrity as judged by T2-weighted MRI is critical for seizure occurrence or generalization in the IH KA model. Our preliminary findings suggest that the central PC may not be the ideal target for DBS in this epilepsy model with spontaneous seizures. (Table Presented).

#24
Objective: We describe the electrocorticographic findings after hippocampal stimulation in normal awake rats. Method(s): Six male Wistar rats were implanted bilaterally with neocortical and hippocampal electrodes. The animals were submitted to hippocampal low- and high-frequency stimulation. Result(s): Recruiting responses were seen in the ipsilateral hippocampus after unilateral low-frequency (6 Hz) hippocampal stimulation with low voltage (0.3 V). These recruiting responses could be seen at the contralateral hippocampus with slightly higher voltage (0.5 V) and over the ipsilateral neocortex with stimulation with 1.2 V. Bilateral neocortical recruiting responses were noted at stimuli voltage of 1.5 V. There were no recruiting responses after high-frequency stimulation (130 Hz). A dorsal column (DC) shift, characterized by baseline oscillation without brain activity modification, was noted in all animals after hippocampal stimulation with frequency higher than 60 Hz. The increase of stimulation frequency from 6 to 130 Hz (1.2 V, 300 musec) showed progressive reduction in the amplitude and disappearance of the time-locked recruiting responses, especially from around 60 Hz. Conclusion(s): Bilateral hippocampal and cortical recruiting responses were easily obtained in all animals after low-frequency hippocampal unilateral stimulation. High-frequency stimulation did not give rise to recruiting response, although a DC shift was noted. The fact that unilateral hippocampal stimulation might lead to bilateral limbic system modulation suggested that unilateral stimulation might be enough in many situations. Our findings suggested that high-frequency stimulation was more likely to be effective than low-frequency stimulation regarding the potential inactivation of the hippocampus. These findings might prove relevant to the determination of the adequate parameters for stimulation using hippocampal deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the future. An increase in our knowledge on the physiologic mechanisms underlying DBS might be translated into more rational clinical approaches. © 2012 International Neuromodulation Society.

#26
The effects of acute responsive high frequency stimulation (HFS) to the subiculum on seizures and interictal spikes were investigated in a semi-acute kainic acid (KA) induced seizure model in rats. Wistar rats (n = 15) were implanted with an electrode-cannula complex in the CA3 area, stimulation and recording electrodes in the subiculum and another recording electrode at the contralateral motor cortex. Two weeks later rats were injected repeatedly with KA (0.05 mug/0.1 muL) for 3 days with an interval of 48 h. HFS (125 Hz, 100 musec) was delivered to the subiculum at a predetermined intensity range (100-500 muA) in the HFS group (n = 7) when seizures were visually detected, while no stimulation was delivered in the sham control group (n = 8). Various severities of seizures were obtained (Stage I-V) and all rats of both groups reached Stage V (Racine's scale) on Day 1. The HFS group had less focal seizures and a longer inter-focal seizure interval on Day 1. Interictal spike rate was also lower in the HFS group and decreased with injection days. Significant day effects were found for the latency, number of focal seizures, and duration of focal seizures and generalized seizures while differences between groups were no longer present. Responsive HFS did not disrupt ongoing seizures. However, focal seizures and interictal spikes were suppressed by HFS. Such anticonvulsant effects of acute subicular stimulation indicate that the subiculum is involved in seizure generation. The reduction of seizure sensitivity over the injection day reflects an intrinsic anticonvulsant mechanism. © 2012 The Authors. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.

#26
The effects of acute responsive high frequency stimulation (HFS) to the subiculum on seizures and interictal spikes were investigated in a semi-acute kainic acid (KA) induced seizure model in rats. Wistar rats (n = 15) were implanted with an electrode-cannula complex in the CA3 area, stimulation and recording electrodes in the subiculum and another recording electrode at the contralateral motor cortex. Two weeks later rats were injected repeatedly with KA (0.05 mug/0.1 muL) for 3 days with an interval of 48 h. HFS (125 Hz, 100 musec) was delivered to the subiculum at a predetermined intensity range (100-500 muA) in the HFS group (n = 7) when seizures were visually detected, while no stimulation was delivered in the sham control group (n = 8). Various severities of seizures were obtained (Stage I-V) and all rats of both groups reached Stage V (Racine's scale) on Day 1. The HFS group had less focal seizures and a longer inter-focal seizure interval on Day 1. Interictal spike rate was also lower in the HFS group and decreased with injection days. Significant day effects were found for the latency, number of focal seizures, and duration of focal seizures and generalized seizures while differences between groups were no longer present. Responsive HFS did not disrupt ongoing seizures. However, focal seizures and interictal spikes were suppressed by HFS. Such anticonvulsant effects of acute subicular stimulation indicate that the subiculum is involved in seizure generation. The reduction of seizure sensitivity over the injection day reflects an intrinsic anticonvulsant mechanism. © 2012 The Authors. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial License, which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.

#27
Background: Contribution of neuroinflammation and epilepsy in the mature brain has elicited contradictory results with either excitatory or inhibitory effects. The amygdala is one of the main parts of the limbic system susceptible to insults that lead to neuroinflammation and epilepsy. This study evaluates the effect of chronic inflammation of the rat amygdala induced by lipopoly saccharide (LPS) on kindling epileptogenesis. Method(s): LPS (5mug/rat) was infused once daily into the basolateral amygdala (BLA) of adult rats. Daily electrical stimulation (150-300 muA, 100 Hz, monophasic square wave stimulus of 1 msec per wave, 2 secduration) was delivered into BLA 30 min after LPS injections until the animals became fully kindled. Result(s): LPS had no significant effect on the development of focal and generalized seizures. Conclusion(s): The type of neural system exposed to LPS and its specific electrophysiological properties seems to ascertain the final excitatory or inhibitory outcome.

#30
Rationale: Closed-loop responsive electrical brain stimulation is an emerging new therapy for the treatment of epilepsy. Seizure-prone states may be characterized by changes in tissue oxygenation (OXY), and changes in tissue OXY have been observed in response to spontaneous seizures and epileptiform discharges. If tissue OXY changes contribute to seizure generation, then interventions that alter tissue OXY may have therapeutic value. In this study, we characterized tissue OXY changes in response to a range of electrical stimulation that is used in epilepsy research and therapy in control and tetanus toxin (TX) treated rats. Method(s): Focal seizures were induced by injecting TX (50ng/0.5il) into the neocortex or dorsal hippocampus of adult male Sprague- Dawley rats (275-325g) anesthetized with isoflurane. Each rat was allowed to recover a minimum of two weeks. For tissue OXY experiments, control and TX rats were anesthetized with ketamine (80mg/kg) and xylazine (12mg/kg, IP) and placed in a stereotaxic. An oxygen-sensitive optical probe (Presens) was attached to a platinumiridium electrode and lowered to the same coordinates used for the TX injection. OXY measurements were acquired continuously at 4 samples/ sec from either the hippocampus or neocortex. High-frequency (HFS: 20, 60, 200Hz), and low-frequency (LFS: 1Hz) stimulations were tested. Symmetrical biphasic square wave pulses were used, and were 160isec/phase for HFS and 500msec/phase for LFS. Pulse amplitudes ranged from 0.1-0.6mA. Burst durations were 2sec for HFS and 10sec for LFS. Because voltage tended to increase with the duration of the LFS, additional voltage-controlled experiments were performed with LFS using long bursts (30-600sec) of low-voltage controlled (+/-1V) stimulation. Result(s): Tissue OXY changes were observed for all stimulation frequencies, and response amplitude tended to increase with current amplitude. The typical response, especially at high amplitudes, was a transient oxygenation decrease lasting several seconds, followed by a prolonged increase lasting for tens of seconds. In some cases, the OXY baseline changed after stimulation. For HFS, 20 and 200Hz evoked a small initial decrease, followed by a much larger OXY increase, while 60Hz stimulation evoked a large initial decrease followed by an even larger increase. The response to LFS was qualitatively different. The late OXY increase was much larger than that of the HFSs and often resulted in a persistent increase in the oxygenation baseline. Further experiments with LFS in the TX rat revealed a transient decrease in EEG spiking after LFS, and a mitigating effect on the OXY decreases associated with spontaneous seizures. Conclusion(s): The observation that changes in tissue OXY varied by stimulation frequency and intensity suggest that stimulation-induced changes in tissue OXY could contribute to the therapeutic effect of responsive stimulation. These observations also suggest that measurement of tissue OXY can be a useful tool for assessing neural responses to electrical stimulation.

#41
Background: Electrical stimulation kindling model, having epilepsy-inducing and spontaneous seizure and o1ther advantages, is a very ideal experimental animal model. But the kindling effect might be different at different sites. Objective(s): To compare the features of animal models of complex partial epilepsy established through unilateral, bilateral and alternate-side kindling at hippocampus and successful rate of modeling among these 3 different ways. Design(s): A randomized and controlled animal experiment. Setting(s): Department of Neurology, Qilu Hospital, Shandong University. Materials: Totally 60 healthy adult Wistar rats, weighing 200 to 300 g, of either gender, were used in this experiment. BL-410 biological functional experimental system (Taimeng Science and Technology Co. Ltd, Chengdu) and SE-7102 type electronic stimulator (Guangdian Company, Japan) were used in the experiment. Method(s): This experiment was carried out in the Experimental Animal Center of Shandong University from April to June 2004. After rats were anesthetized, electrode was implanted into the hippocampus. From the first day of measurement of afterdischarge threshold value, rats were given two-square-wave suprathreshold stimulation once per day with 400 alphaA intensity, 1ms wave length, 60 Hz frequency for 1 s duration. Left hippocampus was stimulated in unilateral kindling group, bilateral hippocampi were stimulated in bilateral kindling group, and left and right hippocampi were stimulated alternately every day in the alternate-side kindling group. Seizure intensity was scored: grade 0: normal, 1: wet dog-like shivering, facial spasm, such as, winking, touching the beard, rhythmic chewing and so on; 2: rhythmic nodding; 3: forelimb spasm;4: standing accompanied by bilateral forelimb spasm;5: tumbling, losing balance, four limbs spasm. Modeling was successful when seizure intensity reached grade 5. t test was used for the comparison of mean value between two samples. Main Outcome Measure(s): Comparison of the successful rate of modeling, the times of stimulation to reach intensity of grade 5, the lasting time of seizure of grade 3 of rats in each group. Result(s): Four rats of alternate-side kindling group dropped out due to infection-induced electrode loss, and 56 rats were involved in the result analysis. The successful rate of unilateral kindling group, bilateral kindling group and alternate-side kindling group was 55% (11/ 20),100% (16/16) and 100%(20/20), respectively. The stimuli to reach the grade 5 spasm were significantly more in the bilateral kindling group than in the unilateral kindling group [(30.63+/-3.48), (19.36 +/- 3.47) times, t=8.268,P < 0.01], and those were significantly fewer in the alternate-side kindling group than in the unilateral kindling group [(10.85+/-1.98)times, t=8.744,P < 0.01]. The duration of grade 3 spasm was significantly longer in the bilateral kindling group than in the unilateral kindling group [(9.75+/-2.59), (3.21+/-1.58) days, t=8.183, P < 0.01]. Among 20 successful rats of alternate-side kindling group, grade 5 spasm was found in the left hippocampi of 11 rats, but grade 3 spasm in their right hippocampi; Grade 5 spasm was found in the right hippocampi of the other 9 rats, grade 4 spasm in the left hippocampus of 1 rat and grade 3 of 8 rats. Conclusion(s): The speed of establishing epilepsy seizure model by alternate-side kindling is faster than that by unilateral kindling, while that by bilateral kindling is slower than that by unilateral kindling. The successful rate is very high to establish complex partial epilepsy with alternate-side or bilateral kindling. Epilepsy seizure established by alternate-side kindling has antagonistic effect of kindling and the seizure duration of grade 3 spasm is prolonged.

#47
Experiments were designed to reproduce the antiepileptic effects of low frequency stimulation (LFS) during the amygdala kindling process and to examine LFS-induced changes in receptor binding levels of different neurotransmitters in normal brain. Male Wistar rats were stereotactically implanted in the right amygdala with a bipolar electrode. Rats (n=14) received twice daily LFS (15 min train of 1 Hz, 0.1 ms at an intensity of 100 to 400 muA) immediately after amygdala kindling stimulation (1 s train of 60 Hz biphasic square waves, each 1 ms at amplitude of 200-500 muA) during 20 days. The LFS suppressed epileptogenesis (full attainment of stage V kindling) but not the presence of partial seizures (lower stages of kindling) in 85.7% of the rats. Thereafter, normal rats (n=7) received amygdala LFS twice daily for 40 trials. Animals were sacrificed 24 h after last stimulation and their brain used for labeling mu opioid, benzodiazepine (BZD), alpha1-adrenergic, and adenylyl cyclase binding. Autoradiography experiments revealed increased BZD receptor binding in basolateral amygdala (20.5%) and thalamus (29.3%) ipsilateral to the place of stimulation and in contralateral temporal cortex (18%) as well as decreased values in ipsilateral frontal cortex (24.2%). Concerning mu receptors, LFS decreased binding values in ipsilateral sensorimotor (7.2%) and temporal (5.6%) cortices, dentate gyrus (5.8% ipsi and 6.8% contralateral, respectively), and contralateral CA1 area of dorsal hippocampus (5.5%). LFS did not modify alpha1 receptor and adenylyl cyclase binding values. These findings suggest that the antiepileptic effects of LFS may involve activation of GABA-BZD and endogenous opioid systems. © 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

#50
The effect of chronic stimulation of the monkey caudate nucleus on the frequency of alumina cream focal motor seizures is presented. In animals with appropriately placed electrodes, a decline in seizure frequency was noted with continuous 100-Hz stimulation at 1 to 4.0 mA, and 1-ms duration. This same effect was not seen with alternating stimulation cycles or lesions. A rebound increase in seizure frequency after the termination of stimulation was noted. The decrease in seizure frequency appears to be grossly topograpically dependent on electrode position.