Voltage examples

Objective: We present the findings related to seizure outcome during hippocampal deep brain stimulation (Hip-DBS) in patients with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy. Method(s): Twenty-five patients submitted to Hip-DBS were studied. All patients were evaluated with interictal and ictal electroencephalography (EEG) and high-resolution 1.5 T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The hippocampus was targeted directly on MRI using a posterior occipital burr hole approach. Bipolar continuous stimulation was ramped up until 3.0 V (300 micros, 130 Hz). Patients were considered responders if at least 50% seizure frequency reduction was obtained. Result(s): Median age was 39 years; median follow-up time was 57 months (16 women). All patients had focal with impaired awareness seizure (FIAS) and 23 patients had focal aware seizure (FAS). Baseline median FAS and FIAS frequency was 8. Ictal EEG showed unilateral (n = 10) or bilateral (n = 15) seizure onset. MRI showed unilateral (n = 11) or bilateral (n = 8) mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) and was normal in six6 patients. Fifteen patients were submitted to bilateral and 10 patients to unilateral Hip-DBS. Median reduction in FAS frequency was 66%. Eighteen patients with FAS were considered responders and five (21%) were free of FAS. Median FIAS frequency (n = 25) reduction was 91%. Twenty-two patients were considered responders and eight (32%) were free of FIAS. FIAS were significantly more reduced then FAS (P =.017). There was no relation between any contact's position within the hippocampus and outcome for either FAS (P =.727) or FIAS (P =.410). There was no difference in outcome in patients submitted to either unilateral or bilateral Hip-DBS regarding FAS (P =.978) or FIAS (P =.693). Significance: Hip-DBS significantly reduced the frequency of both FAS and FIAS in this cohort of patients with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy. Hip-DBS might represent a good therapeutic option in such patients not amenable to resective surgery.Copyright © 2020 International League Against Epilepsy

Purpose: This study was undertaken to describe our experiences with deep brain stimulation of ANT DBS therapy in drug resistant epilepsy patients. The first DBS operation was performed in 2011 at our center. ANT DBS is recommended in drug resistant focal epilepsy which is not suitable for resective surgery or if the resective surgery and/or VNS was not effective. Method(s): The drug resistant epileptic patients undergo a complete non-invasive presurgical evaluation programme. Epilepsy surgery team provides a consensus statement for the patient about the surgical options. The DBS implantation is carried out in full anaesthesia. Stereotactic T1 MRI is merged with preop plan. We use transventricular, subcaudal or mixed trajectory. We postpone initial programming 4 weeks after operation to use the potential micro-lesion effect (3V,90us,145 Hz). We usually do not change the medication regime. 8 weeks after the implantation, we switch to the following parameters: 5V, 90us, 145 Hz. In the case of not eligible effect we raise voltage to 7/7,5 V gradually. We use always cycling mode: 1 min ON/5 min OFF. Result(s): We have 11 DBS implanted patients with up to 7 years follow up.We experienced significant seizure frequency reduction in case of almost every patient ~ 75% responder rate. We have 1 seizure free patient. Severe/disabling seizures responded better. Daytime seizures were reduced better than seizures at night in the case of frontal lobe epilepsy. We didn't notice device or operation related side effects. Two of them had pregnancy. They didn't have any complication during pregnancy, the babies were born naturally and they are healthy. Conclusion(s): ANT DBS therapy is safe and effective for drug resistant epileptic pateints and seems to be safe for young epileptic women, wo would like to have a child. Therapeutic effect increases with time without changing the DBS parameters!

Rationale: Deep brain stimulation of the thalamus is an alternative surgical option for patients with refractoryepilepsy not feasible for resective surgery, or in whom surgery has failed. We report our recent, short-term efficacy of DBS on bilateral centromedian thalamic nucleus (CM DBS) in subjects with intractable generalized epilepsyorfocal epilepsy with secondary generalization. Method(s): Eight patients (three men; age range, 24-47years; follow-up between 3 and 11 months) were enrolled for CM DBS in Seoul St. Mary's Hospital (two patients under Lennox-Gastaut syndrome; four with schizencephaly under frequent focal seizures with secondarily generalization; one with a large lesion of FCD in R hemisphere; a patient with cryptogenic generalized epilepsy with frequent atypical absence, hypermotor and tonic seizures). Stimulation was delivered using a continuous, high-frequency Stimulation (130Hz, 90musec pulse width, voltage ranging from 1.5 to 3.0V). Seizure counts were monitored and compared with pre-implantation baseline. Result(s): Comparing to baseline,there was 72.1% mean seizure reduction in all patients. Six among them showed clinically and statistically significant improvement (> 50% seizure reduction). One patient remained seizure free from the start of CM DBS for 6 months. No adverse events could clearly be attributed to stimulation. Conclusion(s): Our preliminary evidence suggests that CM DBS appears to be a safe and efficacious treatment, not only in patients with refractory generalized epilepsy but focal (partial) epilepsy appearing less feasible for resective surgical management. Further controlled study with much larger population should be warranted.

Objective: We describe the electrocorticographic findings after hippocampal stimulation in normal awake rats. Method(s): Six male Wistar rats were implanted bilaterally with neocortical and hippocampal electrodes. The animals were submitted to hippocampal low- and high-frequency stimulation. Result(s): Recruiting responses were seen in the ipsilateral hippocampus after unilateral low-frequency (6 Hz) hippocampal stimulation with low voltage (0.3 V). These recruiting responses could be seen at the contralateral hippocampus with slightly higher voltage (0.5 V) and over the ipsilateral neocortex with stimulation with 1.2 V. Bilateral neocortical recruiting responses were noted at stimuli voltage of 1.5 V. There were no recruiting responses after high-frequency stimulation (130 Hz). A dorsal column (DC) shift, characterized by baseline oscillation without brain activity modification, was noted in all animals after hippocampal stimulation with frequency higher than 60 Hz. The increase of stimulation frequency from 6 to 130 Hz (1.2 V, 300 musec) showed progressive reduction in the amplitude and disappearance of the time-locked recruiting responses, especially from around 60 Hz. Conclusion(s): Bilateral hippocampal and cortical recruiting responses were easily obtained in all animals after low-frequency hippocampal unilateral stimulation. High-frequency stimulation did not give rise to recruiting response, although a DC shift was noted. The fact that unilateral hippocampal stimulation might lead to bilateral limbic system modulation suggested that unilateral stimulation might be enough in many situations. Our findings suggested that high-frequency stimulation was more likely to be effective than low-frequency stimulation regarding the potential inactivation of the hippocampus. These findings might prove relevant to the determination of the adequate parameters for stimulation using hippocampal deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the future. An increase in our knowledge on the physiologic mechanisms underlying DBS might be translated into more rational clinical approaches. © 2012 International Neuromodulation Society.

Introduction: Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been used in an increasing frequency for treatment of refractory epilepsy. Acute deep brain macrostimulation intraoperative findings were sparsely published in the literature. We report on our intraoperative macrostimulation findings during thalamic and hippocampal DBS implantation. Material(s) and Method(s): Eighteen patients were studied. All patients underwent routine pre-operative evaluation that included clinical history, neurological examination, interictal and ictal EEG, high resolution 1.5T MRI and neuropsychological testing. Six patients with temporal lobe epilepsy were submitted to hippocampal DBS (Hip-DBS); 6 patients with focal epilepsy were submitted to anterior thalamic nucleus DBS (AN-DBS) and 6 patients with generalized epilepsy were submitted to centro-median thalamic nucleus DBS (CM-DBS). Age ranged from 9 to 40 years (11 males). All patients were submitted to bilateral quadripolar DBS electrode implantation in a single procedure, under general anesthesia, and intraoperative scalp EEG monitoring. Final electrode's position was checked postoperatively using volumetric CT scanning. Bipolar stimulation using the more proximal and distal electrodes was performed. Final standard stimulation parameters were 6 Hz, 4 V, 300usec (low frequency range: LF) or 130 Hz, 4 V, 300usec (high frequency range: HF). Result(s): Bilateral recruiting response (RR) was obtained after unilateral stimulation in all patients submitted to AN and CM-DBS using LF stimulation. RR was widespread but prevailed over the fronto-temporal region bilaterally, and over the stimulated hemisphere. HF stimulation led to background slowing and a DC shift. The mean voltage for the appearance of RR was 4 V (CM) and 3 V (AN). CM and AN-DBS did not alter inter-ictal spiking frequency or morphology. RR obtained after LF Hip-DBS was restricted to the stimulated temporal lobe and no contralateral activation was noted. HF stimulation yielded no visually recognizable EEG modification. Mean intensity for initial appearance of RR was 3 V. In 5 of the 6 patients submitted to Hip-DBS, an increase in inter-ictal spiking was noted unilaterally immediately after electrode insertion. Intraoperative LF stimulation did not modify temporal lobe spiking; on the other hand, HF was effective in abolishing inter-ictal spiking in 4 of the 6 patients studied. There was no immediate morbidity or mortality in this series. Discussion(s): Macrostimulation might be used to confirm that the hardware was working properly. There was no typical RR derived from each studied thalamic nuclei after LF stimulation. On the other hand, absence of such RRs was highly suggestive of hardware malfunction or inadequate targeting. Thalamic-DBS (Th-DBS) RR was always bilateral after unilateral stimulation, although they somehow prevailed over the stimulated hemisphere. Conclusion(s): Contrary to Th-DBS, Hip-DBS gave rise to localized RR over the ipsolateral temporal neocortex, and absence of this response might very likely be related to inadequate targeting or hardware failure. Increased spiking was seen over temporal neocortex during hippocampal electrode insertion; this might point to the more epileptogenic hippocampal region in each individual patient. We did not notice any intraoperative response difference among patients with temporal lobe epilepsy with or without MTS. The relationship between these intraoperative findings and seizure outcome is not yet clear and should be further evaluated.

Rationale: Closed-loop responsive electrical brain stimulation is an emerging new therapy for the treatment of epilepsy. Seizure-prone states may be characterized by changes in tissue oxygenation (OXY), and changes in tissue OXY have been observed in response to spontaneous seizures and epileptiform discharges. If tissue OXY changes contribute to seizure generation, then interventions that alter tissue OXY may have therapeutic value. In this study, we characterized tissue OXY changes in response to a range of electrical stimulation that is used in epilepsy research and therapy in control and tetanus toxin (TX) treated rats. Method(s): Focal seizures were induced by injecting TX (50ng/0.5il) into the neocortex or dorsal hippocampus of adult male Sprague- Dawley rats (275-325g) anesthetized with isoflurane. Each rat was allowed to recover a minimum of two weeks. For tissue OXY experiments, control and TX rats were anesthetized with ketamine (80mg/kg) and xylazine (12mg/kg, IP) and placed in a stereotaxic. An oxygen-sensitive optical probe (Presens) was attached to a platinumiridium electrode and lowered to the same coordinates used for the TX injection. OXY measurements were acquired continuously at 4 samples/ sec from either the hippocampus or neocortex. High-frequency (HFS: 20, 60, 200Hz), and low-frequency (LFS: 1Hz) stimulations were tested. Symmetrical biphasic square wave pulses were used, and were 160isec/phase for HFS and 500msec/phase for LFS. Pulse amplitudes ranged from 0.1-0.6mA. Burst durations were 2sec for HFS and 10sec for LFS. Because voltage tended to increase with the duration of the LFS, additional voltage-controlled experiments were performed with LFS using long bursts (30-600sec) of low-voltage controlled (+/-1V) stimulation. Result(s): Tissue OXY changes were observed for all stimulation frequencies, and response amplitude tended to increase with current amplitude. The typical response, especially at high amplitudes, was a transient oxygenation decrease lasting several seconds, followed by a prolonged increase lasting for tens of seconds. In some cases, the OXY baseline changed after stimulation. For HFS, 20 and 200Hz evoked a small initial decrease, followed by a much larger OXY increase, while 60Hz stimulation evoked a large initial decrease followed by an even larger increase. The response to LFS was qualitatively different. The late OXY increase was much larger than that of the HFSs and often resulted in a persistent increase in the oxygenation baseline. Further experiments with LFS in the TX rat revealed a transient decrease in EEG spiking after LFS, and a mitigating effect on the OXY decreases associated with spontaneous seizures. Conclusion(s): The observation that changes in tissue OXY varied by stimulation frequency and intensity suggest that stimulation-induced changes in tissue OXY could contribute to the therapeutic effect of responsive stimulation. These observations also suggest that measurement of tissue OXY can be a useful tool for assessing neural responses to electrical stimulation.

We investigated the electrophysiological effects of high-frequency anterior thalamic deep brain stimulation using intracerebral mesial and lateral temporal depth electrodes in a patient with intractable focal epilepsy. Monopolar and bipolar stimulation delivered to the thalamic anterior nucleus using the programmable ITREL II stimulation device led to a significant decrease of cross power spectral density and a nonsignificant decrease of coherence in ipsilateral hippocampal structures. No such effect was found in lateral temporal or contralateral sites. The hippocampal inhibition was clearly related to the voltage (>=7 V) and frequency (>=70 Hz) of the thalamic stimulus and occurred with a delay of approximately 60 s after stimulus onset. © 2006 International League Against Epilepsy.

ERRORS ================
Introduction: Stereo-EEG (sEEG) is a technique used to localize the seizure-onset zone for epilepsy surgery in people with drug-resistant focal seizures. Pathological crying reflects disordered emotional expression and the anterior insula is known to play a role in empathy and socio-emotional processing. We describe a patient where direct electrical stimulation of the anterior insula during sEEG generated pathological crying and profound sadness. Case Report/Case History: A 35-year-old left-handed female with drug resistant epilepsy had left temporal lobe surgery with retained mesial structures. Upon re-evaluation with video-EEG monitoring, interictal epileptiform discharges and multiple focal seizures localized to the left posterior temporal-parietal region. She subsequently underwent sEEG with 10 electrodes placed in the left hemisphere around prior surgical margins. Electrical stimulation was performed. Bipolar stimulation of deep electrodes (LV 1-2) in the anterior insular cortex at 5 mA, 50 Hz, 500 msec pulse width in trains of 4 seconds an initial " emotional" response and " teary eyed" signs were present and subjective symptoms of profound sadness. The task of continuous counting was interrupted, and she was unable to finish counting due to the intensity of emotion. Cognitive, motor, language function was normal with intact level of awareness. No post-operative " lesion" was present. When the stimulation was stopped, she returned to her normal mental state with recall of the emotion. This was reproducible with intensification upon repeat stimulation. Conclusion(s): Our case is unique in demonstrating transitory profound sadness and pathological crying during presurgical brain mapping for epilepsy. The timesynched temporal effect of stimulation provides strong causal pathophysiological relationship to implicate the anterior insula in the brain biology of pathological crying.

In spite of systematic investigations, the existence of a specific cortex that could encode for the intensities of somatosensory stimuli, including within nociceptive ranges, is still a matter of debate. The present consensus is that pain is expressed in a distributed network made of thalamus, SII, insula, ACC, and, less consistently, SI. Here we argument that there must be an entrance to this network. The common denominator to every functional imaging study is that the subjects can distinguish between noxious and non-noxious stimuli, or between two different intensities of noxious stimuli. This is associated with a consistent activation of the insula-SII cortices while activations in other brain areas may be missing or sub-significant. In other words, the operculo-insular cortex activations are the most robust pain-related activations across studies, whatever the manipulation of the pain components, except the discriminative one. Intra-cerebral recordings also pointed out this piece of cortex as being able to encode for pain intensity. As a last physiological argument, stimulating directly the brain with small intensities standardized electrical shocks elicited pain sensations selectively if the electrode was in the operculo-insular cortex. Human models of disease confirmed that epileptic discharges in the insular cortex can produce ictal pain. Insular epilepsy (or propagation of discharges to the insular cortex)is the only focal epilepsy to be possibly associated with painful symptoms. Finally, unique and focal lesions of the posterior operculo-insular cortices were able to remove (or at least to impair)thermosensory and nociceptive functions. Thus, the operculo-insular area can be presented as the only area in the brain to respond to the features of a primary thermosensory and nociceptive cortex. This area is likely to be the starting point of the nociceptive-related networks. Future investigations are necessary to determine how this "pain symphony" between these different brain areas is temporally orchestrated. Developments of new targets for functional neurosurgery could benefit of such localized and initiating processes, for instance focal neurostimulations.Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V.